Document configurable Snapcast stream sample rate and bit depth (#825)
music-assistant/music-assistant.io: src/content/docs/player-support/snapcast.md

---

> title: Snapcast Player Provider

Reviewer: Revert this please. It is used in the auto page generation for the menu name

## Features

- Synchronized playback across all Snapcast devices

> - Lossless audio quality. The default is 48 kHz / 16-bit. Higher sample rates and 24-bit are available only when Music Assistant is connected to a compatible external Snapserver (see Settings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Lossless audio quality. The default is 48 kHz / 16-bit. Higher sample rates and 24-bit are available only when Music Assistant is connected to a [compatible external Snapserver](https://github.com/rwjack/snapcast/tree/feature/tcp-packed-s24le).
```

- <b>Snapcast Server IP.</b> The IP address of the external Snapcast server (e.g. `192.168.1.200`)
- <b>Snapcast Control Port.</b> The port the external Snapcast server can be reached on
- <b>Idle threshold stream parameter.</b> (default 60000ms) The stream state will switch from playing to idle after receiving this many milliseconds of silence
- <b>Snapcast stream sample rate.</b> (default 48000) Maximum PCM sample rate Music Assistant sends into the Snapcast TCP source. Options are `48000`, `96000`, and `192000`. Higher rates require Snapcast clients that support them

> - <b>Snapcast stream bit depth.</b> (default 16) Maximum PCM bit depth for those TCP sources. Options are `16` and `24`. 24-bit requires a Snapserver build with packed `s24le` TCP ingest support (see [snapcast/snapcast#1532](https://github.com/snapcast/snapcast/pull/1532))

Reviewer: These docs need to tell users in plain english what they need to do to use each feature. Linking to a PR on another website is no good.

```sh
# Debian / Raspberry Pi OS / Ubuntu
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y git build-essential cmake ninja-build ccache \
  alsa-utils avahi-daemon libasound2-dev libavahi-client-dev libboost-dev \
  libexpat1-dev libflac-dev libopus-dev libsoxr-dev libssl-dev \
  libvorbis-dev libvorbisidec-dev

git clone --branch feature/tcp-packed-s24le --single-branch \
  https://github.com/rwjack/snapcast.git
cd snapcast
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. -DBUILD_CLIENT=OFF
cmake --build .

sudo install -m 755 ../bin/snapserver /usr/local/bin/snapserver
snapserver -v
```

Then:

1. Run that `snapserver` on a host on your network (stop any old Snapserver first).
2. In Music Assistant → Snapcast provider → Advanced Settings:
   - enable **Use existing Snapserver**
   - set **Snapcast Server IP** and **Control Port**
   - set **Snapcast stream sample rate** / **bit depth** as needed
3. Reload the Snapcast provider.
4. Point your Snapcast clients at that **external** server (not Music Assistant’s built-in Snapweb on port 1780).

> Support for higher rates / 24-bit on the built-in Snapserver is planned once the required Snapcast support is available upstream.

Reviewer: I am not sure about this. These are the Music Assistant docs not the - How to build your own Snapserver docs. Our docs should just say you need to connect to a compatible server. A link to some other documentation about that "compatible server" would be fair. I am currently going through the docs to remove unnecessrya technical information to make the page more approachable and this is running counter to that.

- The Snapcast app for iOS is broken as it uses an old version of Snapclient. Using it brings problems with this provider
- Ensure that the ports 1704 and 1705 on the Snapserver host are open. Also make sure that the ports between 4953 and 5153 inclusive are open
- Try the default Snapcast settings and then make changes as necessary

> - Stream sample rate and bit depth settings are only available with an external Snapserver. The built-in Snapserver always uses 48 kHz / 16-bit for now. 24-bit additionally requires an external Snapserver built with packed 24-bit PCM support as described above. Changing these settings requires a provider reload.

Reviewer: As above this has unnecessary technical jargon. It needs to just say what the user needs to actually know.
